# FISH FORECAST
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.kaltura.com/tiny/9mptj>
#### Description: 

Overview
This is a webapp, using javascript, flask and sqlite3. The purpose of the app is to allow users to forecast fish activity for any region in the USA. Users may select from a variety of popular freshwater species in the USA, including bass, carp, catfish, crappie, muskie, panfish, pike, salmon, trout, and walleye. 

To retrieve a forecast, a registered user simply logs in, selects which fish species they want a forecast for, and types in the location they would like the forecast for. When they click on the button labled "Forecast it!", the customized forecast is dynamically displayed. 

What I'm proud of with this app:

This was a major undertaking for me. I spent dozens of hours on it, mostly making mistakes then learning from them! I'm proud that I got a web app to function, doing something that is actually useful for me (and my fishing buddy, who is also my son). I have gone from knowing nothing about coding at the beginnig of this class to making a functional app! 

What I used to create this web app:

1. I started with the CS50 Finance project as a template for a basic web app, which included the registration and log in features. It also included a template to create a sqlite database. 
2. I created all code in GitHub's codespace, (outside the CS50 dev environment). 
3. Weather forecast is pulled from WeatherAPI
4. I used some features from BootStrap
5. Languages used are: HTML, CSS, Java Script, Python, Flask. 
6. I utilized Co-Pilot quite extensively: As a coding instructor, an API expert, and a trouble shooter. I also am new to all these above mentioned languages. So seeing example code syntax was really helpful as well. Lastly, all images used were generated by Co-Pilot. 

Challenges faced

I faced multiple challenges creating this final project. As mentioned above, I built this project outside of the CS50 coding environment. Like learning how to ride a bike without training wheels, I got my share of "bumps and bruises", really not even knowing where issues were or how to resolve them. However by asking questions of Co-Pilot I resolved all of them and learned along the way. 

Getting the API to work was another major hurdle, as I didn't know how to set it up, how to retrieve data, how the data was stored, or how to access it in my code. This was a major learning hurdle for me. 



Key Design Decisions Made

1. I decided to only use the languages introduced in CS50, vs, say creating an iOS app. The rationale for this was to get a light weight web app up and running first within a reasonabe period of time. I may create a iOS app in the future. 

2. Used only one API. Originally, I planned to use two other APIs, including a moon phase API, and a Location API. I got the Location API to work, but I deemed it unnecessary, and removed it; relying solely on the WeatherAPI for location. I also found that the weatherAPI included moon phase data, rendering the moon phase API redundent. 

3. Related to the above I originally built functionality to enable users to save their location of choice. This also was redundant with the WeatherAPI, and I removed it. However, I've kept the database of users, because I have some ideas on how to add additional funcationality to this app in the future, which will leverage a database. 

4. I wanted to have a forecast for each fish species, based on scientific and empirical evidence. I started out research my favorite species (bass), and customizing the algorithm based on sources of authority on bass activity. However, due to time constraints I decided not to spend much time on the algorith, and focus on getting the functionality of the app to work. Therefore, I simply had co-pilot create algorithms for each species. My plan is to revisit the forecasts in the future and make them more robust, as they are likely the true source of value for this app if I continue to develop it. 

5. In my first iteration of this project, I only had a forecast for the specific time the user entered their data, (taking the current time from the datetime import in python). However I realized that as a fisherman I really didn't care about that specific moment, since the value of a forecast is to plan ahead and decide whether to fish. Therefore I added multiple forecasts for different times of day, so the user can get a general sense of the best time to fish for that day. 




